README.adoc, before:

= Apollo GraphQL Client Code Generation Maven Plugin

:project-owner:      aoudiamoncef
:project-name:       apollo-client-maven-plugin
:project-groupId:    com.github.aoudiamoncef
:project-artifactId: apollo-client-maven-plugin-parent
:project-version:    4.0.0

image:https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/workflows/Build/badge.svg["Build Status", link="https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/{project-groupId}/{project-artifactId}.svg[Download, link="https://search.maven.org/#search|ga|1|g:{project-groupId} AND a:{project-artifactId}"]
image:https://snyk.io/test/github/{project-owner}/{project-name}/badge.svg[Known Vulnerabilities,link=https://snyk.io/test/github/{project-owner}/{project-name}]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg[License: MIT,link=https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT]

== Usage

* A simple usage example can be found in https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/tree/master/apollo-client-maven-plugin-tests[plugin tests]

* A complete project with https://github.com/{project-owner}/spring-boot-apollo-graphql[Spring Boot]

=== Getting Started

. Add the apollo runtime library to your project's dependencies:
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
       <groupId>com.apollographql.apollo</groupId>
       <artifactId>apollo-runtime</artifactId>
       <version>2.5.5</version>
   </dependency>
   <!-- Optional, needed only for ANNOTATED nullable type-->
   <dependency>
       <groupId>org.jetbrains</groupId>
       <artifactId>annotations</artifactId>
       <version>20.1.0</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

. Add the code generator plugin to your project's build:
+
[source,xml, subs="attributes+"]
----
<plugins>
    <plugin>
        <groupId>com.github.aoudiamoncef</groupId>
        <artifactId>apollo-client-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>{project-version}</version>
        <executions>
            <execution>
                <goals>
                    <goal>generate</goal>
                </goals>
               <services>
                   <example-api>
                       <compilationUnit>
                           <name>example</name>
                           <compilerParams>
                                <rootPackageName>com.example.graphql.client</rootPackageName>
                           </compilerParams>
                       </compilationUnit>
                   </example-api>
               </services>
            </execution>
        </executions>
    </plugin>
</plugins>
----

. Create a file `src/main/graphql/schema.json` with the JSON results of an https://gist.github.com/aoudiamoncef/a59527016e16a2d56309d62e01ff2348[introspection query], OR you can automatically generate this file by setting `introspection.enabled` to true and `endpointUrl` to your GraphQL endpoint.
At build time, the plugin will query the server and install this file per the value of `schemaFile`.
. Create files for each query you'd like to generate classes for under `src/main/graphql`:
 .. Query file names must match the name of the query they contain
 .. Query files must end with `.graphql` OR `.gql` by default.
 .. Any subdirectories under `src/main/graphql` are treated as extra package names to append to `rootPackageName` in the plugin config.
. Run `mvn generate-sources` to generate classes for your queries.

=== Configuration Options

All plugin configuration properties and their defaults:

[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    <services>
        <!--Complete default configuration-->
        <lahzouz-complete-api>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
            <addSourceRoot>true</addSourceRoot>
            <sourceFolder>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz</sourceFolder>
            <schemaPath>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/schema.json</schemaPath>
            <includes>
                <include>**/*.graphql</include>
                <include>**/*.gql</include>
                <include>**/*.json</include>
                <include>**/*.sdl"</include>
            </includes>
            <excludes></excludes>

            <compilationUnit>
                <name>lahzouz</name>
                <outputDirectory>
                    ${project.build.directory}/generated-sources/graphql-client/lahzouz/
                </outputDirectory>
                <generateOperationDescriptors>false</generateOperationDescriptors>
                <operationOutputFile>
                    ${project.build.directory}/generated/operationOutput/apollo/lahzouz/operationOutput.json
                </operationOutputFile>

                <compilerParams>
                    <rootFolders>
                        <rootFolder>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/</rootFolder>
                    </rootFolders>
                    <generateKotlinModels>false</generateKotlinModels>
                    <warnOnDeprecatedUsages>true</warnOnDeprecatedUsages>
                    <failOnWarnings>false</failOnWarnings>
                    <generateOperationOutput>true</generateOperationOutput>
                    <customTypeMapping></customTypeMapping>
                    <operationIdGeneratorClass>
                        com.apollographql.apollo.compiler.OperationIdGenerator$Sha256
                    </operationIdGeneratorClass>
                    <suppressRawTypesWarning>false</suppressRawTypesWarning>
                    <useSemanticNaming>true</useSemanticNaming>
                    <nullableValueType>ANNOTATED</nullableValueType>
                    <generateModelBuilder>false</generateModelBuilder>
                    <useJavaBeansSemanticNaming>false</useJavaBeansSemanticNaming>
                    <generateVisitorForPolymorphicDatatypes>false</generateVisitorForPolymorphicDatatypes>
                    <rootPackageName>com.lahzouz.graphql.client.lahzouz</rootPackageName>
                    <packageName></packageName>
                    <generateAsInternal>false</generateAsInternal>
                    <sealedClassesForEnumsMatching></sealedClassesForEnumsMatching>
                    <generateApolloMetadata>false</generateApolloMetadata>
                    <metadataOutputFile>
                        ${project.build.directory}/generated/metadata/apollo/lahzouz/metadata.json
                    </metadataOutputFile>
                    <alwaysGenerateTypesMatching></alwaysGenerateTypesMatching>
                    <kotlinMultiPlatformProject>false</kotlinMultiPlatformProject>
                </compilerParams>
            </compilationUnit>

            <introspection>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
                <endpointUrl></endpointUrl>
                <headers></headers>
                <schemaFile>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/schema.json</schemaFile>
                <connectTimeoutSeconds>10</connectTimeoutSeconds>
                <readTimeoutSeconds>10</readTimeoutSeconds>
                <writeTimeoutSeconds>10</writeTimeoutSeconds>
                <useSelfSignedCertificat>false</useSelfSignedCertificat>
                <useGzip>false</useGzip>
                <prettyPrint>false</prettyPrint>
            </introspection>
        </lahzouz-complete-api>

        <!--Minimal configuration-->
        <lahzouz-min-api>
            <compilationUnit>
                <name>lahzouz</name>
            </compilationUnit>
        </lahzouz-min-api>

        <!--Auto configuration-->
        <lahzouz-auto-api></lahzouz-auto-api>
    </services>
</configuration>
----

==== Nullable Types

Available nullable types:
[source]
----
ANNOTATED
APOLLO_OPTIONAL
GUAVA_OPTIONAL
JAVA_OPTIONAL
INPUT_TYPE
----

Properties specified as nullable or not in the schema will be annotated with `org.jetbrains:annotations`.

==== Custom Types

To use https://www.apollographql.com/docs/android/essentials/custom-scalar-types/[custom Scalar Types] you need to
define mapping configuration then register your custom adapter:

[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    ...
    <customTypeMap>
        <Long>java.time.LocalDate</Long>
    </customTypeMap>
    ...
</configuration>
----

Implemenatation of a custom adapter for `java.time.LocalDate`:

[source,java]
----
public class DateGraphQLAdapter implements CustomTypeAdapter<Date> {

	private static final SimpleDateFormat DATE_FORMAT = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd");

	@SneakyThrows
	@Override
	public Date decode(@NotNull final CustomTypeValue<?> customTypeValue) {
		return DATE_FORMAT.parse(customTypeValue.value.toString());
	}

	@NotNull
	@Override
	public CustomTypeValue<?> encode(final Date date) {
		return new CustomTypeValue.GraphQLString(DATE_FORMAT.format(date));
	}
}
----

=== Using Apollo Client

Assuming a file named `src/main/graphql/GetBooks.graphql` is defined that contains a query named `GetBooks` against the given `schema.json`, the following code demonstrates how that query could be executed.

[source,java]
----
ApolloClient client = ApolloClient.builder()
    .serverUrl("https://example.com/graphql")
    .addCustomTypeAdapter(CustomType.DATE, new DateGraphQLAdapter())
    .okHttpClient(new OkHttpClient.Builder()
        .addInterceptor(new Interceptor() {
            @Override
            okhttp3.Response intercept(Interceptor.Chain chain) throws IOException {
                return chain.proceed(chain.request().newBuilder().addHeader("Authorization", "Basic cnllYnJ5ZTpiVarArsVzMTIz").build());
            }
        })
        .build())
    .build();

client.query(new GetBooksQuery())
    .enqueue(new ApolloCall.Callback<GetBooksQuery.Data>() {

    @Override public void onResponse(@NotNull Response<GetBooksQuery.Data> response) {
        ...
    }

    @Override public void onFailure(@NotNull ApolloException t) {
        ...
    }
    });
----

==== Wrap ApolloCall with CompletableFuture

If you miss *apolloCall.execute* method, which execute a query synchronously, you could wrap *apolloCall.enqueue* with a CompletableFuture and call *join* method to wait for the response

[source,java]
----
public class ApolloClientUtils {

    public static <T> CompletableFuture<Response<T>> toCompletableFuture(ApolloCall<T> apolloCall) {
        CompletableFuture<Response<T>> completableFuture = new CompletableFuture<>();

        completableFuture.whenComplete((tResponse, throwable) -> {
            if (completableFuture.isCancelled()) {
                completableFuture.cancel(true);
            }
        });

        apolloCall.enqueue(new ApolloCall.Callback<T>() {
            @Override
            public void onResponse(@NotNull Response<T> response) {
                completableFuture.complete(response);
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(@NotNull ApolloException e) {
                completableFuture.completeExceptionally(e);
            }
        });

        return completableFuture;
    }
}
----

==== Using Apollo without `apollo-runtime`

See https://www.apollographql.com/docs/android/advanced/no-runtime/[documentation]

Commit message:

doc(Readme): add reference to Apollo Android

README.adoc, after:

= Apollo GraphQL Client Code Generation Maven Plugin

:project-owner:      aoudiamoncef
:project-name:       apollo-client-maven-plugin
:project-groupId:    com.github.aoudiamoncef
:project-artifactId: apollo-client-maven-plugin-parent
:project-version:    4.0.0

image:https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/workflows/Build/badge.svg["Build Status", link="https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/actions"]
image:https://img.shields.io/maven-central/v/{project-groupId}/{project-artifactId}.svg[Download, link="https://search.maven.org/#search|ga|1|g:{project-groupId} AND a:{project-artifactId}"]
image:https://snyk.io/test/github/{project-owner}/{project-name}/badge.svg[Known Vulnerabilities,link=https://snyk.io/test/github/{project-owner}/{project-name}]
image:https://img.shields.io/badge/License-MIT-yellow.svg[License: MIT,link=https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT]


Maven plugin that calls the https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-android[Apollo Android compiler] to generate your Java/Kotlin sources.

== Usage

* A simple usage example can be found in https://github.com/{project-owner}/{project-name}/tree/master/apollo-client-maven-plugin-tests[plugin tests]

* A complete project with https://github.com/{project-owner}/spring-boot-apollo-graphql[Spring Boot]

=== Getting Started

. Add the apollo runtime library to your project's dependencies:
+
[source,xml]
----
<dependencies>
   <dependency>
       <groupId>com.apollographql.apollo</groupId>
       <artifactId>apollo-runtime</artifactId>
       <version>2.5.5</version>
   </dependency>
   <!-- Optional, needed only for ANNOTATED nullable type-->
   <dependency>
       <groupId>org.jetbrains</groupId>
       <artifactId>annotations</artifactId>
       <version>20.1.0</version>
   </dependency>
</dependencies>
----

. Add the code generator plugin to your project's build:
+
[source,xml, subs="attributes+"]
----
<plugins>
    <plugin>
        <groupId>com.github.aoudiamoncef</groupId>
        <artifactId>apollo-client-maven-plugin</artifactId>
        <version>{project-version}</version>
        <executions>
            <execution>
                <goals>
                    <goal>generate</goal>
                </goals>
               <services>
                   <example-api>
                       <compilationUnit>
                           <name>example</name>
                           <compilerParams>
                                <rootPackageName>com.example.graphql.client</rootPackageName>
                           </compilerParams>
                       </compilationUnit>
                   </example-api>
               </services>
            </execution>
        </executions>
    </plugin>
</plugins>
----

. Create a file `src/main/graphql/schema.json` with the JSON results of an https://gist.github.com/aoudiamoncef/a59527016e16a2d56309d62e01ff2348[introspection query], OR you can automatically generate this file by setting `introspection.enabled` to true and `endpointUrl` to your GraphQL endpoint.
At build time, the plugin will query the server and install this file per the value of `schemaFile`.
. Create files for each query you'd like to generate classes for under `src/main/graphql`:
 .. Query file names must match the name of the query they contain
 .. Query files must end with `.graphql` OR `.gql` by default.
 .. Any subdirectories under `src/main/graphql` are treated as extra package names to append to `rootPackageName` in the plugin config.
. Run `mvn generate-sources` to generate classes for your queries.

=== Configuration Options

All plugin configuration properties and their defaults:

[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    <services>
        <!--Complete default configuration-->
        <lahzouz-complete-api>
            <enabled>true</enabled>
            <addSourceRoot>true</addSourceRoot>
            <sourceFolder>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz</sourceFolder>
            <schemaPath>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/schema.json</schemaPath>
            <includes>
                <include>**/*.graphql</include>
                <include>**/*.gql</include>
                <include>**/*.json</include>
                <include>**/*.sdl"</include>
            </includes>
            <excludes></excludes>

            <compilationUnit>
                <name>lahzouz</name>
                <outputDirectory>
                    ${project.build.directory}/generated-sources/graphql-client/lahzouz/
                </outputDirectory>
                <generateOperationDescriptors>false</generateOperationDescriptors>
                <operationOutputFile>
                    ${project.build.directory}/generated/operationOutput/apollo/lahzouz/operationOutput.json
                </operationOutputFile>

                <compilerParams>
                    <rootFolders>
                        <rootFolder>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/</rootFolder>
                    </rootFolders>
                    <generateKotlinModels>false</generateKotlinModels>
                    <warnOnDeprecatedUsages>true</warnOnDeprecatedUsages>
                    <failOnWarnings>false</failOnWarnings>
                    <generateOperationOutput>true</generateOperationOutput>
                    <customTypeMapping></customTypeMapping>
                    <operationIdGeneratorClass>
                        com.apollographql.apollo.compiler.OperationIdGenerator$Sha256
                    </operationIdGeneratorClass>
                    <suppressRawTypesWarning>false</suppressRawTypesWarning>
                    <useSemanticNaming>true</useSemanticNaming>
                    <nullableValueType>ANNOTATED</nullableValueType>
                    <generateModelBuilder>false</generateModelBuilder>
                    <useJavaBeansSemanticNaming>false</useJavaBeansSemanticNaming>
                    <generateVisitorForPolymorphicDatatypes>false</generateVisitorForPolymorphicDatatypes>
                    <rootPackageName>com.lahzouz.graphql.client.lahzouz</rootPackageName>
                    <packageName></packageName>
                    <generateAsInternal>false</generateAsInternal>
                    <sealedClassesForEnumsMatching></sealedClassesForEnumsMatching>
                    <generateApolloMetadata>false</generateApolloMetadata>
                    <metadataOutputFile>
                        ${project.build.directory}/generated/metadata/apollo/lahzouz/metadata.json
                    </metadataOutputFile>
                    <alwaysGenerateTypesMatching></alwaysGenerateTypesMatching>
                    <kotlinMultiPlatformProject>false</kotlinMultiPlatformProject>
                </compilerParams>
            </compilationUnit>

            <introspection>
                <enabled>false</enabled>
                <endpointUrl></endpointUrl>
                <headers></headers>
                <schemaFile>${project.basedir}/src/main/graphql/lahzouz/schema.json</schemaFile>
                <connectTimeoutSeconds>10</connectTimeoutSeconds>
                <readTimeoutSeconds>10</readTimeoutSeconds>
                <writeTimeoutSeconds>10</writeTimeoutSeconds>
                <useSelfSignedCertificat>false</useSelfSignedCertificat>
                <useGzip>false</useGzip>
                <prettyPrint>false</prettyPrint>
            </introspection>
        </lahzouz-complete-api>

        <!--Minimal configuration-->
        <lahzouz-min-api>
            <compilationUnit>
                <name>lahzouz</name>
            </compilationUnit>
        </lahzouz-min-api>

        <!--Auto configuration-->
        <lahzouz-auto-api></lahzouz-auto-api>
    </services>
</configuration>
----

==== Nullable Types

Available nullable types:
[source]
----
ANNOTATED
APOLLO_OPTIONAL
GUAVA_OPTIONAL
JAVA_OPTIONAL
INPUT_TYPE
----

Properties specified as nullable or not in the schema will be annotated with `org.jetbrains:annotations`.

==== Custom Types

To use https://www.apollographql.com/docs/android/essentials/custom-scalar-types/[custom Scalar Types] you need to
define mapping configuration then register your custom adapter:

[source,xml]
----
<configuration>
    ...
    <customTypeMap>
        <Long>java.time.LocalDate</Long>
    </customTypeMap>
    ...
</configuration>
----

Implemenatation of a custom adapter for `java.time.LocalDate`:

[source,java]
----
public class DateGraphQLAdapter implements CustomTypeAdapter<Date> {

	private static final SimpleDateFormat DATE_FORMAT = new SimpleDateFormat("yyyy-MM-dd");

	@SneakyThrows
	@Override
	public Date decode(@NotNull final CustomTypeValue<?> customTypeValue) {
		return DATE_FORMAT.parse(customTypeValue.value.toString());
	}

	@NotNull
	@Override
	public CustomTypeValue<?> encode(final Date date) {
		return new CustomTypeValue.GraphQLString(DATE_FORMAT.format(date));
	}
}
----

=== Using Apollo Client

Assuming a file named `src/main/graphql/GetBooks.graphql` is defined that contains a query named `GetBooks` against the given `schema.json`, the following code demonstrates how that query could be executed.

[source,java]
----
ApolloClient client = ApolloClient.builder()
    .serverUrl("https://example.com/graphql")
    .addCustomTypeAdapter(CustomType.DATE, new DateGraphQLAdapter())
    .okHttpClient(new OkHttpClient.Builder()
        .addInterceptor(new Interceptor() {
            @Override
            okhttp3.Response intercept(Interceptor.Chain chain) throws IOException {
                return chain.proceed(chain.request().newBuilder().addHeader("Authorization", "Basic cnllYnJ5ZTpiVarArsVzMTIz").build());
            }
        })
        .build())
    .build();

client.query(new GetBooksQuery())
    .enqueue(new ApolloCall.Callback<GetBooksQuery.Data>() {

    @Override public void onResponse(@NotNull Response<GetBooksQuery.Data> response) {
        ...
    }

    @Override public void onFailure(@NotNull ApolloException t) {
        ...
    }
    });
----

==== Wrap ApolloCall with CompletableFuture

If you miss *apolloCall.execute* method, which execute a query synchronously, you could wrap *apolloCall.enqueue* with a CompletableFuture and call *join* method to wait for the response

[source,java]
----
public class ApolloClientUtils {

    public static <T> CompletableFuture<Response<T>> toCompletableFuture(ApolloCall<T> apolloCall) {
        CompletableFuture<Response<T>> completableFuture = new CompletableFuture<>();

        completableFuture.whenComplete((tResponse, throwable) -> {
            if (completableFuture.isCancelled()) {
                completableFuture.cancel(true);
            }
        });

        apolloCall.enqueue(new ApolloCall.Callback<T>() {
            @Override
            public void onResponse(@NotNull Response<T> response) {
                completableFuture.complete(response);
            }

            @Override
            public void onFailure(@NotNull ApolloException e) {
                completableFuture.completeExceptionally(e);
            }
        });

        return completableFuture;
    }
}
----

==== Using Apollo without `apollo-runtime`

See https://www.apollographql.com/docs/android/advanced/no-runtime/[documentation]
